# mfdt - Malicious File Detection Tool
> *TU863 Year 4 - Application Security - Assignment 1*

> *Created by Mario Brebu | B00144991*

## Overview
<p align="justify">
MFDT is a CLI tool that allows users to check a given directory or file system for malicious files. The tool calculates the hash for all provided files, compares the hashes against the <a href="https://hashlookup.circl.lu/">CIRCL Hash Lookup API</a>, runs all remaining unknown files through <a href="https://www.virustotal.com/">VirusTotal</a>, and generates a report for the user.
</p>

### Disclaimer
<p align="justify">
As this software makes use of remote APIs - including the user's own VirusTotal API key - all results are subject to failure due to outages, rate limiting, and other such restrictions. Please do not solely rely on the reports generated by this tool. All VirusTotal scans include a link to the relevant scan in the report file, please ensure you also check this yourself for inaccuracies.
</p>

## Usage
### Installation
First install the required Python packages, you can manually check them in `requirements.txt`.

`pip install -r requirements.txt`

### Scanning a Directory
You can scan a directory by specifying the directory and your VirusTotal API key.

`python3 mfdt-cli.py -d <SCAN_DIRECTORY> -k <VIRUSTOTAL_API_KEY>`

### Available Options
`--scan-dir | -d` - Required. Specifies the directory to scan.

`--api-key | -k` - Required. Specifies the VirusTotal API key the script should use.

`--report-dir | -r` - Optional. Specifies the directory in which reports should be generated. Defaults to `./reports` 
> NB - `./reports` is relative. By default this folder will be created in your current working directory. If you want to keep reports in the tool's own folder, either manually specify the path or run the tool from its folder.